So we could do const loop and
it's gonna be an async function.
And inside it we're going to,
the way that they do it and
they have like a webcam.update
function to update the webcam frame.
So that's the way that they
do it with this library So
you have to call webcam.update
every time that we loop.
And when the camera is updated, we need
to predict what's on the screen, right?
So we're also going to await a predict
function that we have not written yet,
but we will.
And in an example here actually,
let's leave it like this for
now, i want to try something.
If it doesn't work, I'll tell you what
I want you to try and I will do it, but
first, let's leave it like this.
So we have a request animation frame,
it calls the loop function,
it updates the webcam frame and it runs or
it calls a predict function that we
have not written yet, so let's find it.
Okay, so predict function again,
that will be an async function,
okay, so here in the predict function that
will look similar to what we did before.
So we know that when we call predict or
detective re-transportation,
so we can have a prediction is
the variable and here we're gonna await.
We have our model loaded so it's available
and then we in this example it is predict.
So predict, but
we need to pass it something and
because we declared our webcam
variable at the top, we at this point,
should be ready to have the canvas
again to actually give it the image.
I don't actually know what's in
just the webcam object here, but
I think canvas is what we want because
we only want the canvas snapshot.
Okay, So we have predictions here and
maybe at this point,
let's log that and see what happens.
So we can go a bit further later
because I think if I remember well,
what's gonna come back is not only
the single prediction of what it thinks,
either right or left, but
it's gonna come back with both labels, but
the probability is going to be different.
And then we're going to be able to extract
the one with the highest probability,
so at this point, let me check that
there's no error, there is no error.
So if you click on start,
it should, it did not do anything.
Failed to parse model JSON response.
So instead of running npm run start in
the terminal, run npm watch instead.
So I think that I had two different
comments here where one of them
is using a normal npm parcel
index html that we had before.
But I had some issues with If
either loading like local file
that's not served as the route
is not that, it's like outside.
So let's run npm run watch,
that's gonna just run a simple python
server with the on local host, 1234.
So in the part one, the JS where we are,
so below predict I do think that
you have to call again,
window.requestAnimationFrame loop,
because I think what happened here is
that it enabled the webcam and it ran
a prediction on like the first frame that
it saw but then it doesn't keep running.
So let's try let's try that yeah.
Okay, and now that works better
,and then you have continuously
like all the stuff in the browsing.
What you see here is that you do get
the an array with both your labels, so
right and left but what you see here
is that the probability is different.
So we're gonna have to write
a bit more code to only return
the highest probability because of course,
i want to know if it's 92% sure
that I'm tilting my head left,
then I don't really necessarily care
about getting the right label as well.
So I'm just gonna refresh that.
So we can pick backup where we
console log our predictions and
we're just gonna do again that's like the
part of code that we're gonna right now is
not necessarily like it's
not TensorFlow specific.
It's like how to get the maximum
prediction in an array and
there's probably other ways to write this.
But what I'm gonna do, we're gonna create
a variable called topPredictionIndex and
that is going to be the maximum so
Math.max and
inside we're going to spread
our predictions array and
we're going to map through it.
And only look at the max of
the probability property.
Okay, so again,
maybe there's better ways to do this.
But again, because the predictions
array comes back as, [INAUDIBLE],
you don't have to write
the comments that I'm writing here.
But because it comes back as an array
of objects with class and then for
example, write probability 0.2 and
then the same object,
but with the left property, so
it goes back continuously like that.
What we're doing here is that we are doing
like a map operation to kinda isolate
the probability property and
we're doing math.max on this one.
It should be returning the actually,
sorry,
I called the index but
it's just top prediction should be fine.
So it's going to return the maximum
probability but at this point,
it's not the way that I wrote it,
again, could be better, but
at this point it's going to return
the probability, not the whole object.
So then the way I did it is to then
create a top prediction index and
then loop through the predictions array.
I'm gonna find the index of 5 and
we want the index of the object in
the array that has that probability.
So I probably over complicated it,
but it works in for now that's enough,
so we're gonna isolate probability and
we're want to, okay?
So here the top prediction index,
we're gonna look through the predictions
array and we're gonna find the index where
the probability in that object is the same
as the one that we isolated here.
And then we are going to log
the class that is related to
that index or
to the object at the index in the array.
So console.log, so
we have again our predictions array, so
predictions and we have an index.
So top prediction index,
that should actually be the object
with the highest probability.
But we want to just isolate the label and
in the object,
I think from what I can see in my code,
that's called classname, not class.
So now, When that's done,
then it means that what we're gonna log
instead is going to be the actual label
of the gesture that is the most likely
to have been recognized by the model.
So if you have written all this,
then when we're refreshing our browser and
my camera is on and i click start,
what we should see in the, yeah.
Also, I left the other console a little
bit, see, so I'm tilting right?
So remember when I said
the flipping the camera,
I think we're probably needed to
be true because that's a big word.
Okay, so
let's see if actually maybe by default,
the webcam kind of flips you and
you actually want it to be the other way.
So if you have the same issue as me,
when we're declaring,
i have it on line 16, but
I don't know about but
it should be like towards the top of the
code where we're calling tmImage.webcam.
You can change the last variable to or
the last argument to true and
if we save that and
I'm also going to remove logging
predictions because I just
want to see the label.
I don't want to necessarily
see the array of labels, so
if we try again, [SOUND] Well,
I mean sometimes ,okay, so
if I do that right, yes, it looks
right It doesn't look left too much.
So it could be, again,
we only recorded 30 samples
,that's not much but
I've heard more chance sometimes.
So as it's getting confused, what we
can do, what's cool to do as well with
transfer learning like that as well,
is that if you realize that your
predictions are not super great and
that you wish they were more accurate.
You could actually, and
we're gonna do that now, we
can go back to Teachable Machine, retrain
our two classes with maybe more samples.
So instead of 30, let's try to do like a
hundred, like that should just take a few
seconds and we can replace our,
my model folder with a new one.
And our code shouldn't have to change
at all because as long as the name
of the folder is the same,
then the rest should be good as well.
So we can try to do that and
see if that works, so
if we go back to Teachable Machine.
I mean, maybe for you, depending on what
you recorded it actually works a lot
better, but for me,
it seems to have a bit of a issue.
So if I use the same labels as like,
you know I'm gonna start write and
my camera is on and
I'm gonna record more samples.
So it takes about 10 seconds
to record about 100 images and
then on right, left turn on the camera.
Cool?
Okay, so now I have 100 images for
both, it should take maybe a second or
two longer than before
because we have more images.
But if it means that our prediction is
better then when you build an application,
that's accuracy is probably what you want.
Okay, so here, right,
the left seems to be less wobbly.
So remember before when I was
in the center, well okay,
now that I just said that,
it starts [LAUGH] being confused again.
But now that we or
that I at least re-recorded right left
about 100 samples each,
I can re-export, so download.
That's my number two,
I'm gonna extract it,
I'm going to open my files and I'm gonna
delete the first model that I had,
it's totally fine to not keep it and
I'm gonna re-drag this one.
I'm gonna rename it my model like I
had before and now if I just re-run,
I'm gonna stop Teachable Machine and
if I reload the page again
I did not change the code,
I just changed them the model.
And if I start again, Okay,
It's much better now, so now it's not
going between the right, left, right,
left, When I'm right, it's right,
when I'm left, it's left.
So maybe all we needed was just to record
more samples, which it makes sense,
but again,
if you buy with recording 30 samples,
it was enough, then that's great as well.
And you know, sometimes if I do this,
then it might get a bit confused,
because it doesn't know what this is,
you just know right or left, okay.
So just to recap, to kind of go over what
happens, it means that first of all in
less than 50 lines of code,
you're implemented transfer learning.
So basically we start by writing
the path where the model is and
then we have our start button.
When we click,
we're initiating like our main function
we are giving it the path
to the model JSON file and
the metadata and then the we don't need
to give the path to the weights file.
It's more the model JSON file does that or
the load function does that from
getting the path to the model and
the metadata file.
And then Teachable Machine
image library exposes a tmImage
variable that you can then call webcam
on it to initiate a webcam with
dimension of what you see on the screen.
And here is the flip variable that we
first set to false and it was weird so
we can set it to true.
Here the setup is asking you for
permission to set up the webcam,
play is to actually start
streaming the webcam.
And then we're appending the canvas on the
page to be able to see what's coming from
the webcam feed.
And then with request animation loop,
we're calling constantly
the loop function that's going
to update the webcam frame and
we're calling predict on every frame,
basically.
We're trying to see what's in this image,
what label are we getting back.
And in our predict function, we by now,
it's expected that with TensorFlow.js
it's usually a predict or
detect or classify method and
we're passing it the canvas as well.
And then we can do some kind of normal,
object manipulation
thing in JavaScript to get the maximum,
probability and
display that here as a log message,
but otherwise on the screen.
And from there, you can then build
a bigger application where, for example,
you could scroll with your head.
Where if the gestures that you record
are like up or down, then you could have
a machine learning model that if, let's
say, you're eating a sandwich while you're
reading the news and you can go up and
down, and you can scroll with your
head instead of putting your dirty
fingers on your keyboard or something.
But you can think about whatever
applications that you want to build
with this.
But it means that in a few minutes you can
train a model with digital machine and
in less than send 50 lines of code you
can start to have it on a web page.